# Sprint-Challenge Applied Javascript - Lambda Times

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past week and apply them in a concrete project. This Sprint explored the DOM and the concept of components. During this Sprint, you studied the DOM, DOM Events, and Components, as well as HTTP GET requests, and the axios library. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate proficiency by creating an online Lambda newspaper called "Lambda Times."

## Instructions

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the Sprint Challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your Tead Lead and Instructor in your cohort help channel on Slack. Your work reflects your proficiency in Applied JavaScript.

You have three hours to complete this challenge. Plan your time accordingly.

## Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your Team Lead.

## Description

You are going to create a Lambda Newspaper. Your job is going to be to create the components that make up the newspaper's home page. You will do this at first with static data, then you will request data from a server to create dynamic components.

In meeting the minimum viable product (MVP) specifications listed below, you should have a console full of correct responses to the problems given.

## Self-Study Questions

Demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering the following free-form questions.

Edit this document to include your answers after each question. Make sure to leave a blank line above and below your answer so it is clear and easy to read by your project manager

1. What is the DOM?

    The Document Object Model is a representation of the objects that make up an HTML document.  It is representative of both the structure and content of an HTML document. The DOM is essentially an interface through which programs can manipulate the structure, style and content of the document. In most cases it is a tree-like representation of nodes and objects that make up the HTML document.

2. What is an event?

    An event is when a user is interacting with a webpage in some way shape of form. Events can be a variety of user interactions from keypresses to mouse-clicks. These ‘events’ or user inputs can be recorded/detected and used to initiate some sort of user interaction such as a color change or page refresh.

3. What is an event listener?

    An event listener is a procedure is JavaScript that waits for an event to occur. This event could be user generated or it could be generated by an external API. There is a function in the JavaScript language which takes the event to listen for as its first argument and a second argument that is a callback function which is triggered when the event is fired. This function is addEventListener().

4. Why would we convert a NodeList into an Array?

    A NodeList is returned to us when using .querySelectorAll(). The NodeList is an array-like object to which you may use the forEach.() method to loop over, however, since it is not a true array, other array methods like .map() are not available for use on the. For this reason, there are many cases where you would want to convert a NodeList to a true array using the Array.from() method, in order to make all array methods available for use on the data contained within.

5. What is a component?

    A component is in a sense a module comprised of different parts, in this case HTML, CSS and JavaScript, which can all be brought together for reuse within web applications. The key benefit of creating and using components is the ability to create many instances of the same element using reusable code and simply passing in new data. These components encapsulate a set of related functions or data.

### Git Set up

* [ ] Fork the project into your GitHub user account
* [ ] Clone the forked project into a directory on your machine
* [ ] Create a pull request before you start working on the project requirements.  You will continuously push your updates throughout the project.
* [ ] You are now ready to build this project with your preferred IDE

## Minimum Viable Product

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements:

* [ ] Look through the HTML code and familiarize yourself with the different sections. Some of them already exist, but some need to be filled in. DO NOT add any code to the HTML file itself.

* [ ] Following the instructions in the `Header/index.js` file, create the Header component. 

* [ ] Following the instructions in the `Tabs/index.js` file, create individual Tabs components.

* [ ] Following the instructions in the `Cards/index.js` file, create individual Cards components.

## Stretch Problems

Your stretch challenge is to write the functionality of a `Carousel` component. This is an advanced challenge, so you are not expected to be able to complete it. If you begin and don't finish, you should still submit with what you have. This is going to be a bit different because you are going to need to create some advanced functionality for the carousel. There is no need to request data for this exercise.

* [ ] Complete the carousel functionality in `Carousel.js`

* [ ] If you complete the Carousel, add functionality so that the carousel slides when the buttons are pressed instead of just appearing.

* [ ] Create an 'infinite loop' carousel. In which as long as you click on an arrow, the array of images will loop over itself.

* [ ] If you have finished the above, research `data attributes`. Implement data attributes within your tabs as well as your cards. Give the tabs functionality so that when they are clicked they filter the cards to only display the cards that contain that topic.
